So before we dive into our application and check what we can improve there when we talk about state
management let's first understand what applications state actually is.
What do I mean with this term.
Consider this simple application which is kind of close to ours.
Missing some components but we get components where we have recipes edit them have a whole component
where we start maybe and have a network service or as an hour project data storage service which connects
us to some backend.
Now as I said there might be more components and more services in your application but let's stick to
this simple one.
Now we fetch posts in the recipe's component and create posts in the ED recipe component and everything
which happens here is our application state.
It's managed entirely through our angular app through javascript.
Therefore whatever we reload our application in the browser we get back a new index HVM file and our
application starts from well from start.
So all this application state is lost when ever we refresh our application and that's just how it is.
You can of course store parts of that state and local storage if you want to persist it and check for
the existence whenever your application starts.
But in general it is lost and that's not the problem.
We all have backend where we have a possibility of storing and fetching data in our project that's the
firebase back end.
And this actually is a persistent state because of course it is still there after we started our application
or after we restarted.
So that state and this alone is no problem it's just important to understand what I'm talking about
state in general is describing what the user sees what the user did.
It keeps track of whatever happened in our application and some things or some pieces of that state
are things we actually want to store on a Bakken.
For example the recipes to use are created over parts of the state can be lost.
So for example if we are currently locked in if we refreshed the application we might not care about
the logging state.
Well maybe we do but especially if there is a longer period of inactivity that's no problem that we
lost this.
So this is state in general.
Now why is it a problem or what can be difficult about managing this state Sidor dismissed here.
That's again just some random application.
But you see there are a lot of connections even though this is still a relatively simple application
with just a couple of components.
But we've got a lot of things going on and the state of our application is actually edited and queried
from all over our app and that can lead to issues because as our application grows maintaining our app
and always knowing where our state is added to it and which services our app could potentially override
existing state can be can difficult it can be hard to keep track of where state gets changed and where
it in our application.
This is why we want you well right applications where there aren't too many places where we can add
our state and we actually already did this in our course project.
Let's have a look at it in the course project.
There is one thing we already have.
We're using services and some of these services like the recipes service we're using subjects.
So basically invent emitters to inform our application whenever something changed by using this pattern
using a subject in a service we ensure that we actually only edit our estate in this case the recipes
inside of this service and we inform the rest of this application about this change.
The alternative would have been to edit the recipes wherever we will find it appropriate for example
in the recipe edit component.
We don't have to reach out to the service there or keep that in mind.
We could just edit the recipes every there and then go from there using our servers as a central place
is a good practice and using a subject to inform the rest of the app about changes so that we can update.
DUI is also a very good practice.
So we're already doing many things right.
And that's an important take away.
You don't need to optimize the state handling in an application like this if you already are using services
and subjects.
If it's not getting a problem for you because these applications or to be honest isn't super big.
So for application of this size there might be a need to improve the way we handle our state as your
application grows and grows.
Even this service driven combined with subject approach might get hard to maintain though.
Now to avoid running into issues or applications which are harder to maintain Esti grow you can use
a different pattern which is pretty popular in the re-act community.
Let's have a look at how you would manage the application state when using redirects in a redux approach.
You have one central store in your application so one central place where you manage your application
state.
Right now keep in mind with multiple services so you go back to one central place to really ensure that
there well is only one place where your state lifts this single source of truth your components and
services you might still have services which for example centralize some methods you use for multiple
components.
So these two pieces still have access to this story but also to each other.
So they received a state from the store but of course you can still communicate between components and
services or components and components.
This is not interrupted.
We just change the way we store our state.
So that's one thing.
However there's also another important thing we have a way of accessing our store and state but how
do we change it.
We dispatched so-called actions for dead actions are clearly defined in this approach.
And for example we could have action which is save.
Post this action would next reach a so-call reducer.
Now reducers are functions.
You write yourselves which take action and a potential payload as an input and then do something with
it to manipulate the original state.
And they do this in the immutable way which means they don't edit the old state they overwrite it with
a new state by simply taking the old one.
Editing something but in a new javascript object and then saving it does SD read X set up actions reducers
and to store are the key things here.
And we can use that in an angle or two.
It's not have to react there is a special implementation for angular called N are X which basically
adapts this redirects approach to fit really nicely into an angular ep even supporting features like
lazy loading where you might add things to your single store only once a certain module has been loaded.
Let's have a look at this N-G are x implementation and let's dive into it step by step to see how we
can use it too.
Well possibly enhance our application if you want to switch to does state management pattern or if you
feel that for the application you're building the old approach with services and subjects and so on
just doesn't do it anymore.